### Regression on Current Average Selling Price of Pokémon Cards Using Their Characteristics

#### Introduction

Pokémon is an animated series spanning various forms of entertainment. This series features animal-liked characters who use supernatural elemental abilties to battle each other in a kid-friendly manner. A Pokémon Card is a collectible card starring in the “Pokémon Trading Card Game” (also known as Pokémon TCG). This trading card game sees two players battling each other using Pokémon cards. Each card features illustrations of a character, item, or location along with the effects of the card in battle. Each card belongs to a set (of cards) representing an overarching theme for that collection of cards. There are different types of Pokémon cards (e.x. Pokémon, Trainer, Energy), each with different functions. This study will focus solely on Pokémon cards with type “Pokémon” (for simplicity, assume any mention of a Pokémon card refers to a card with type “Pokémon”). Single Pokémon cards cannot be directly bought first-hand from the Pokémon company. Instead, Pokémon cards are first introduced to consumers through packs or boxes of cards. Each card has a specific (unfortunately unknown) probability of appearing in a pack of cards (tied to rarity), introducing an element of luck to obtaining these cards. However, once these cards are opened from a pack, they can be sold second-hand by owners/sellers (who decide the price) and bought by bidders (who agree to those prices). Thus, the Pokémon company has no direct control over the prices of individual cards in this market, making it a very interesting market to explore!

This study is focused on regressing the current average selling price of Pokémon cards using their various characteristics. The motivation behind this study is to explore what drives the price of Pokémon in an intriguing market where the producer of the good has no direct control over the prices of the cards.

For more information on this study, please visit my website dedicated for this study: https://tadanokaida.github.io/Pokemon_Card_Price_Regression/

From there, you will be able to access the written report along with a video presentation. I highly recommend reading through the website first, which will provide you with extra background knowledge and context to better understand the variables chosen in this study.

#### About Reproducibility

 The Pokémon TCG API refreshes their price data daily. Thus, reproducing this study while requesting data live from the API is impossible. To make my study reproducible, I have saved the data I requested from the API on the day the report was published (May 7,2024). I stored this data in the repository of this project's github and I have included a reproducible version of my source code titled "sourcecode-reproducible". The only differences between these versions is that the reproducible version loads the data from the github while the regular version makes live requests to the API. Thus, to examine the process of requesting data, please refer to the sourcecode.Rmd file. However, to reproduce the results of this study, please run the code in the sourcecode-reproducible.Rmd file.
